Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to
this mini symposium.
My name is Yaguang Xu. I am the professor and the
chair of Department of Pharmaceutical Biomedical
Sciences at the University of Georgia.
Later last year, I was honored
to be selected as a chair
for the section ET1, Biological
Therapeutic Agent. Together with six colleagues
across the world,
I had the privilege of reviewing and
evaluating 150 abstracts submitted to this
section.
From those outstanding submissions, we
selected seven abstracts for oral
presentation for today.
First, I would like to express my sincerest
appreciation to my colleagues for their hard
work and the thoughtful
efforts throughout the review process.
In addition, on behalf of them, I would
like to extend our congratulations for
the seven speakers today.
You did a great job. Congratulations.
It's now my pleasure to introduce my
co-mentor.
Sorry, my co-chair.
Then you'll know why
I talk about the co-mentor
later. Dr. William Bank,
emeritus professor at the University of
Illinois at Chicago.
Dr. Bank has held many distinguished
roles throughout his career, including
Triple S fellow, department chair, associate dean,
cancer center director, AACR board director,
many
others. However, for me,
beyond all of these impressive titles,
he's simply a truly wonderful mentor
to me.
I first met Dr. Bank about 20 years ago
at a AACR meeting
when he served as the table mentor
for the AACR grant writing workshop, and I was a
postdoc fellow.
Over the past two decades, Dr. Bank has supported
me, encouraged me, and guided me through the different
stages of my career.
And therefore, in a very
personal sense,
it is a real honor for me to have followed
his examples for so many years,
and it is
especially meaningful to co-chair this
section with him today.
Now let's join me in warmly
welcoming Dr. Bank to open this session.
Thank you, Yaguang. This really isn't about me, it's about you all.
But that's a very kind introduction.
There's plenty of room up front. The seats are cheaper.
Come on down if you care to do it.
So our mini symposium today is on innovative targeted
cellular therapies for exploiting cancer vulnerabilities.
Next slide. Ah. So I was wondering, what are cancer
vulnerabilities?
So I
did what most of us do. I Googled and found
PubMed references. These are specific genetic,
molecular, or metabolic dependencies that cancer cells rely
on for survival, which differ from normal cells.
These are often called cancer dependencies,
and arise from genomic instability and mutations such as loss of tumor
suppressor genes that create Achilles heels, which can be targeted
by therapies. And there are some examples, genetic dependencies,
synthetic lethality. You're all aware of these.
Cyclops genes that the DepMap people
outlined, that when lost,
makes the cell vulnerable to further suppression of the same gene.
Metabolic and environmental stress, aneuploidy, and therapeutic targets.
And these are defined in the Cancer Dependency Map, or
DepMap,
developed by the group at the Broad Institute.
And if you haven't looked at this
DepMap, this is an interactive
map that you can hover over there, and you can see how many genes
are in these categories. And so in today's
presentations, we're going to hear a couple of presentations
about KRAS, which are the small GTPases.
We're going to hear about the kinase library, which have
mutations in here. Transcription factors like REST.
A very interesting ligand-gated ion channels,
nicotinic acetylcholine receptors over here.
And ferroptosis, which has many proteins
involved,
oxidative
stress types of proteins. And I just highlighted nucleic
acid binding proteins, as that's the largest category of these
dependencies. I might point out, if you haven't seen it,
the DepMap team has been awarded at this meeting, the
AACR Team Science AwardI
couldn't find when the lecture is.
I hope it isn't today right now. But if you have a
chance to go to it, please do so.
So the presentations today
are listed here.
I won't belabor this.
And the first one, however,
will be by Dr. Stanland
on preclinical development of ETFX
G12V, a first-in-class EGFR-directed KRAS
G12V selective inhibitor. Dr. Stanland, come on up.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you so much for inviting me to present.
I'm really happy to be here today to talk about the work that we
have been doing at Enfuego to develop EFTX G12V,
which is an EGFR-directed KRAS G12V selective
inhibitor.
These are my disclosures.
So I'm sure a lot of folks here are pretty familiar with KRAS, so I'm not going
to talk too much about it. But just to provide a quick reminder that
KRAS is a proto-oncogene that encodes a small GTPase, and
due to its critical roles in cellular proliferation and survival and
differentiation, it is often mutated in cancer.
These mutations do cause constitutive activation of the KRAS and MAP
kinase signaling pathway, and KRAS mutations are present in about a
quarter of all human cancers.
In particular, they occur very frequently in what we call the big
three, which is lung, colorectal, and pancreatic cancer.
Across those three cancers and KRAS mutations, we actually see that
KRAS G12V is incredibly common, and it's one of the most common,
actually second only to KRAS G12D.
There's been a lot of movement in the field, a lot of significant progress in
developing KRAS therapies, in particular
for mutant selectives like G12C,
and there's also a lot of G12D inhibitors that are starting to get into
trials now, but there's still a real lack of
G12V specific inhibitors.
Also, all of the KRAS inhibitors that exist, or the
majority of them, are systemically delivered small
molecules, and so they actually lack any tumor-targeted delivery
mechanisms, and this can lead to systemic toxicities.
Further, we have also seen a lot of progress with pan RAS and pan KRAS
inhibitors, but there's a lot of evidence that's coming out that means selectivity
can actually enhance therapeutic response.
And so for all these reasons, we chose to go after KRAS G12V
specifically.
We elected to use RNAi as a therapeutic modality to address some of
the challenges in KRAS inhibitor development.
Over the years, RNAi has had sort of a bit of a roller coaster
ride,
but recently there's been a real resurgence and excitement for this as a
therapeutic modality, really because of multiple GalNAc
conjugated siRNAs that have hit the clinic and are being used for liver
disease. But right now we're sort of in this next
frontier of RNAi, and the biggest focus is really on
extrahepatic delivery, and in particular, there's a lot of folks that are really
interested in getting into cancer cells.
And so we've developed EFTX G12V, which is a
multi-staged KRAS G targeting RNAi molecule.
This consists of an EGFR targeting linear ligand called
GE11,
and this allows us to preferentially deliver this
siRNA to tumor tissue that has high EGFR
expression.
By adding a C-terminal cysteine to GE11 and using a simple
PEG3 linker, we've conjugated this to an RNAi
molecule that is fully chemically modified and specifically targets
KRAS G12V whilst totally sparing wild-type KRAS.
Importantly, these chemical modifications do confer really critical drug-like
properties to this molecule. So that includes enabling for
immune stealth and also improving stability and nuclease
resistance.
So for delivery using our EGFR
ligand, we first did an experiment where we took the fully
conjugated siRNA molecule with a Cy 5
fluorophore tag, and we injected that into a mouse that was
harboring a xenograft tumor. After two hours, we pull the tumor out and
dissociate and look by flow cytometry to essentially look at
uptake into the tumor cells. And so what we see actually
is nearly 90% of the tumor cells have taken up the
siRNA, and so we know that we're delivering really well to the tumor cells.
We've also done ex vivo biofluorescence to evaluate somatic
tissue delivery as well. And so again, you can see we do
get really significant delivery to the tumor tissue.
We do get significant delivery to the kidney as well, but this is a class
effect of ligand-conjugated siRNAs and so was somewhat expected.
And then beyond that, we do see delivery to liver, skin, and bowel
as well, not quite as high as the tumor and kidney tissue.
And those are somatic tissues that express EGFR.
So additionally, not particularly unexpected to see some delivery in those
tissues.
We next looked at spatial distribution within the tumor tissue
to make sure that we are able to penetrate beyond the tumor
vasculature. And so what we are showing here is in situ
hybridization of the antisense strand of the siRNA, which is the
active payload. So that's shown here in red.
And what you can see is that we do get really excellent distribution throughout the
entirety of the tumor. Importantly, this and this
here are both microvessels, and we've confirmed that by CD31
staining. And we do get really excellent penetration throughout the
entire tumor, even beyond the
microvessels.So as I
mentioned, this is a very G12V selective siRNA.
We have done deep RNA sequencing, and we don't see any concerning off-target
effects.
Both TNS4 and CXCL8 here are downstream of
KRAS, and so those are on target.
We
did this RNA sequencing in a heterozygous cell line, and so
that allowed us to look at both the G12V and wild type KRAS
alleles. And what we see is very deep, excellent
silencing of G12V, and complete sparing of the wild
type allele.
At the protein level, we see this as well.
So this is a matched isogenic cell line that has either a wild type
or G12V KRAS tagged with luciferase.
And when we compare to a pan KRAS siRNA, which is shown here in blue,
what we can see is that is equally potent against either the wild type or the
G12V,
whereas the G12V selective siRNA is completely sparing the wild
type at the protein level, as well as what we see in the sequencing at the
RNA level.
As a single agent in vivo, EFTX G12V does show significant
disease control and anti-tumor activity, and we've shown this in both
lung and colon cancer models. And importantly, I do want to
highlight that in the H727 model that we have here in the middle, we did
observe multiple complete responses after treatment with the drug.
We've also completed in vivo PK experiments in mice as
well. So this is following a single five mg
per kg dose. And we have an assay where we can just
run antisense STEM-LOOP qPCR, and we can evaluate total abundance of
the siRNA. And so what we see is that the
siRNA is cleared from the plasma within four hours.
Again, we do get a bit of exposure in the kidney, which is where we get the most
exposure besides the tumor, but the vast majority of it is cleared within
96 hours.
And importantly, this is where we really get the benefit of having a G12V selective
siRNA. When we looked at KRAS mRNA in
kidney tissue, what we see is that we don't get any significant inhibition of
KRAS. It is fully sparing the wild type, and so this
selectivity is really critical for us as we don't have those
on target, off tissue effects.
Looking at the tumor PK, again, after a five mgs per kg single dose,
we can detect reasonable levels of the antisense strand through
96 hours following that single dose.
Importantly, this does also correlate with sustained and durable
silencing of the KRAS protein. So this is a Western
blot from the same experiment doing 2.5, 5 and
10 mgs per kg. And what we see is that even at 96 hours at
our highest dose, we're getting really excellent silencing of KRAS protein.
This also correlates with downstream effectors as well.
So using Western blots, we look at phospho-ERK as well,
and we see even out to 96 hours, again, really excellent silencing
as well as DUF6 mRNA.
As I mentioned, this is a very stable molecule due to the chemical
modifications. And what we have found is that it actually accumulates
in tumor tissue following a multi-week dosing.
And so what I'm showing here is our two lung models, following a single
dose versus after several weeks of twice a week
dosing. And we see really nice accumulation of the molecule, indicating that it
is very stable.
This does also correlate with sustained downstream
silencing of phospho-ERK, which we can see here at the Western blots.
This is the H441 lung cancer model, where we do get really excellent silencing
of phospho-ERK after multiple weeks of dosing.
So everything I've shown so far has been in immunodeficient models, and so we did
want to also evaluate our efficacy in an immunocompetent model.
So we used MPK195 cells, which were
developed by the Barbasid lab, and they have a
Lox-P G12V cassette. And so what that
allows us to do is treat mice with tamoxifen and
induce a complete genetic knockout of G12V.
And so when we compare the complete genetic knockout to the G12V
siRNA, we do see that we get comparable
efficacy and anti-tumor activity in the immunocompetent
mouse model, and very deep responses with both of
the treatment groups.
And importantly, also, we do see a rapid and robust anti-tumor immune
response in both treatment groups as well.
And so shortly after treatment starts, we see that in
both groups, we do get significant infiltration of CD8 positive T cells
into the tumor. And we do also get elevated granzyme B
expression in tumor localized lymphocyte populations.
So we're getting a great anti-tumor immune response.
Lastly, we have performed a non-GLP safety assessment in both
rats and mini pigs, and we went up to
10X of the effective dose, and we see no
gross path, no clinical observations, no visible lesions, no
changes in body weights or organ weights, no changes in kidney function, liver
function, so it is a very tolerable, very safe molecule.
And so in conclusion, we have developed EFTX G12V, which is
a highly potent and very safe inhibitor of KRAS
G12V.
We do get really excellent delivery to tumor tissue through our EGFR targeting
ligand,
very selective silencing of G12V, and complete sparing of wild type
KRAS. And we do see really excellent inhibition of tumor
growth in lung and colon cancer models,
and additionally, in an immunocompetent lung cancer model as well.
And again, it's well-tolerated up to 10X the effective dose in both rats and mini
pigs.And so with that, I'd like to
thank all the folks at Enfuego who have helped out with this work,
as well as the folks in the Peiko Lab at UNC, and our
collaborators. And quick plug, if you do want to learn
more about what we're doing at Enfuego, I'm presenting on another project tomorrow
morning. I have a poster
so please come stop by and say hi.
Thank you, Dr. Sandlin. Outstanding presentation.
The floor is open for some questions.
When you have a question, come up to the microphone, identify yourself, and
speak clearly, please.
Hi, really great talk. I'm Jackson Fathery. I'll be speaking a little bit later.
I'm curious, targeting EGFR in KRAS mutant lung
cancers, given that the mutant activation is downstream of
EGFR, are you worried about just silencing of EGFR expression
as a potential mechanism of resistance?
Yeah. So the EGFR ligand that we're using is actually
non-mitogenic, so it's not going to affect EGFR at
all. And it actually has a very weak affinity for EGFR as well,
so it recycles back to the cell surface very quickly.
As far as generally
knowing that EGFR reactivation is a common resistance mechanism in KRAS, we
have done some evaluations in colon cancer
combining with cetuximab with anti-EGFR antibodies, and we do see they combine
really nicely together.
So
I think that answers your question.
Thank you.
If nobody else has any questions, I'd like to ask one, if I may.
Yeah.
In the immunocompetent model,
was that a single dose, or was that repeated doses that you gave to get
that effect?
So that was repeated dosing. That was twice per week.
Let's see. So I showed data from day three, day six, so it
was twice per week dosing. So essentially, those were
after a single dose, but then the whole experiment was twice
per week.
So, okay. So it looked like the tumor might be coming back
after a certain time, and I didn't know if you had stopped treatment at that
time.
I'm trying to remember.
But it was within statistical analysis.
Yes, please.
Hi, I'm Terry Coneran with KRAS Kickers. Good to see you.
Please speak up.
I'm Terry Coneran with KRAS Kickers.
Nice to hear the presentation. So my curiosity is, isn't there
any distinction between the male and female responses
in the animals?
We did not see anything. Yeah.
Yeah.
Just have time for a few more. I guess my next
question would be, what's next? Where do you go with this?
Yeah. So we
have a few other
sort of additional drugs that we're evaluating right now.
You can come to my poster, and I can tell you more about it.
But,
at this point, we're essentially
trying to select a lead molecule to move forward with.
We do think that while this molecule is really
great on its own, does show great single agent efficacy, we have
other molecules in our pipeline that we think will actually perform
even a little bit better. So we're in the process of kind of
evaluating head-to-head,
and deciding essentially what we're going to move forward with.
But,
yeah.
Okay. So you did get good selectivity
with this mutant
G12V and the other, so that's a really good
start. So,
yeah. Well, good luck as you continue down-
Thanks.
Yeah, thank you. So if there are no other questions, thank you, Dr.
Sandlin.
Thank you.
Okay.
Let's move to next speaker and,
Dr. Zhaoqing Liu from University of Southern
California. Please come to the stage.
Thank you for the kind introduction, Dr. Xi.
I'm not a doctor yet, but hopefully soon this year.
Yeah, so thank you for the opportunity to share our work here today.
I'm Zhaoqing from University of Southern California, Dr.
Lin Jiang's lab, and today I'll be sharing our research on targeting
ORC1A for potential aiding colorectal cancer to
KRAS-targeted therapy.
And this is my disclosure.
So to give some context, as we heard it many times, KRAS is the
most frequently mutated oncogenes, driving approximately 45% of colorectal
cancer. As a binary switch downstream of multiple or several
tyrosine kinases,
it cycle between the GDP-bound and GDP-bound form to
regulate downstream signaling pathways.
It was considered undruggable for many years before the 2013 breakthrough
by Dr. Shaw's lab, which eventually led to the approval of
sotorasib and adrasib. And also, we've heard many times, we've
also seen the emergence of the pan-RAS inhibitor, aturasib, from Arbutus
Medicine.
So while the GTOPF
inhibitors are effective in lung cancer, the
clinical reality for them in colon cancer is very different.
And as shown in this table, we've highlighted colon cancer
data in red and lung cancer data in green.
There is a striking and consistent efficacy gap.
And even with the
more recent aturasib, we only see very modest effect in colon cancer.
And this indicates a strong intrinsic resistance mechanism
and the
urgent need for development of a combination
therapy.So then we sought to
identify actionable signaling nodes and
through the target evaluation of multiple signaling
pathways and inhibitors, we have identified ORC1A
as one of our strongest candidates.
ORC1A is not only a mitotic regulator but also
an oncogenic kinase overexpressed in colorectal
cancer. It was reported in many synthetic lethal target screening with KRAS
inhibitors and also reported in many
established literatures for its role in mediating response to KRAS targeted
therapy.
And more interestingly, in our functional analysis, we also see upon the treatment
of G12C inhibitor or the PIRAS inhibitors, we've also seen rapid
induction activation of ORC1A, indicating that
ORCA acts as a reactive signaling node
that turn on to bypass RAS downstream signaling pathway.
And this led to our central hypothesis that co-inhibition of ORCA will sensitize
colorectal cancer to KRAS-targeted therapy.
To address this strategy, we combined KRAS inhibitors with clinical
stage ORC1A specific inhibitor olaparib.
And the addition of olaparib significantly enhances the
sensitivity and efficacy of KRAS inhibitors, reducing the IC50 of
both sotorasib and adagrasib by approximately 10-fold in a SLIC14-63 model.
And the synergy analysis confirm a robust synergy mathematically
with a combination index
well below 1.0 across multiple different concentrations.
While many of the data we show today is based on G12C inhibitors, but we
also tested this in the PIRAS inhibitors in other colon cancer model
with G12V, G12D or G13D mutation.
And then we want to know whether this
effect is due to cytotoxic effect or cytostatic effect, as is only growth
inhibition or cell death. So while the Annexin V PI
staining analysis show minimal effect with a single drug alone, the combination of
KRAS and ORCA leads to significant induction of
apoptotic cells. And this was confirmed on a molecular
level through the activation and cleavage of multiple caspases.
And crucially, this reduced cell viability can be
partially rescued by use of the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD, indicating a
classic caspase-dependent apoptotic program.
And then we want to know what's the molecular driver of the apoptosis here.
So we screened the BCL2 family protein.
And so as you can see here, while the classic anti-apoptotic
BCL2 and BCL-XL remain stable, there is a
consistent and profound suppression of MCL1 in the combination group.
And
to identify it and confirm MCL1 is a functional driver,
we can bypass upstream signaling and combine KRAS inhibitor
birinapant with clinical MCL1 inhibitor, including
S-345 and AMG 176. The addition of the
MCL1 inhibitor phenocopy, the ORC1A synergy, reducing the
IC50, and the induction of apoptosis.
This indicates that the loss of function of MCL1 is actually
critical and important for the overcoming of the resistance and the sensitivity of
the KRAS inhibitors.
Then we want to know how MCL1 here is actually
suppressed. So, we performed the protein half-life assay, and
as shown in this middle panel, the combination of KRAS and ORCA inhibitors
significantly suppresses the
half-life of MCL1, which can be restored and rescued
by using the proteasome inhibitor AMG 132, indicating a
classic ubiquitin-proteasome degradation system.
And then we focus on GS3 beta, a known negative
regulator of MCL1 stability. And as we can see here,
the combination of KRAS and ORC inhibitor significantly increases
dephosphorylation of MCL1, and which can be abolished by using
the GS3 beta inhibitor, which also restores the
MCL1 level downregulated by the dual inhibition.
To further test this, we used a non-degradable MCL1
mutant, lacks the phosphorylation site, and the use of this mutant
not only partially rescue the cell viability, but also partially blocks the
activation of caspases. This suggests that the GS3
beta MCL1 signaling axis here is important for the
synergistic apoptosis in this security effect.
And then we want to know what signaling events here unleashed GS3
beta activity. As shown in the top panel, the
dual combination and inhibition of KRAS and ORCA trigger
a complete loss of the inhibitory phosphorylation of GS3
beta on the serine nine residue.
And here's why.
As shown in this panel,
upon the single treatment of KRAS inhibitors, there is a rapid
signaling rebound as early as eight hours.
And this is a well-studied resistance mechanism in colorectal cancer.
But with the addition and inhibition of olaparib,
it not only significantly delays the rebound
signaling but also further suppresses phospho-AKT.
And we will confirm these signaling conversions by using directly
MEK and PRK inhibitors and confirm that only the dual inhibition of
both survival signaling pathways leads to the complete
reactivation of GS3 beta.
And moving to in vivo, we first use the SY1411 cell
line-derived model, as shown in the tumor growth curve, the combination
of the inhibitors significantly suppressed the tumor growth compared to
single treatment, and this was achieved without systematic toxicity.
And mechanistically, this further confirmed our individual findings with the
suppression of phospho-ERK and downregulation of MCL1 and
the activation of apoptosis by the cleavage of
caspase III.Then to test our
hypothesis and model in a more clinically relevant model,
we used two G12C patient-derived xenograft model.
Across both G12C PDX models, the combination leads to
a more profound and a sustained tumor suppression.
And mechanistically, this further reinforces our individual finding
and also our findings in the cell line-derived model with the suppression of
phosphorylation of AKT, downstream of MCL1, and the activation of
apoptosis.
So in conclusion, we further identified MCL1,
ORC kinase A, as an important driver of the intrinsic resistance
mechanism in colorectal cancer. And the dual inhibition
of ORCA and KRAS drives synergistic apoptosis
through the MCL1 degradation triggered by reactivation of GSS3
beta, which is mediated by the suppression of the compensatory rebound
signaling. And with both the strategy and the
mechanism validated in both CDX and PDX model, we have
provided a preclinical rationale for co-targeting
KRAS and ORCA in KRAS mutant colorectal cancer to
improve the patient outcome.
Yeah, I would like to thank my mentor, Dr. Lin Jiang, as well as Dr.
Jian Yi for their guidance. I would like to thank all our current and previous lab
members for their invaluable support.
I would like to thank our collaborator, Dr.
Heinz-Josef Lenz, and his group, and also all the funding source from NCI and USC.
Thank you all. I would like to take any questions.
Thank you.
Questions for
almost Dr. Lu.
Outstanding presentation, Mr. Lu. Go ahead.
John Chastain, University of Miami. Congratulations on the very nice work.
As you know, the allosertib's had a very hard time getting
approved due to primarily hematologic toxicities-
Right
... in early phase studies. So I'm wondering if your synergy
effect would potentially allow you to use it at lower doses to
overcome that,
and whether you've been able to explore that in your models.
Yes. So,
it does.
As we know, it does show toxicity in clinic.
So for the combination, we did use a lower dose for the KRAS
inhibitors and the allosertib to avoid systematic
toxicity. Yeah.
Great. And I'm also just wondering about the MCL1 effect.
I think it is just sort of a constitutively overturned protein that tends to be
transcriptionally dependent. I wonder if you looked at the transcription
level of it during the KRAS inhibition.
Well, yes. So MCL1 is majorly down-regulated through
both transcription regulation and
post-translational modification.
We first looked at the translational level, but not a
significant change. So that's why we turned to look for the
proteasome degradation. Yeah.
Thank you.
So
any other questions from the audience?
our questioner asked something about
synergy. How did you do that analysis for synergy?
So we used the Chou-Talalay model for the combination index.
What model?
The Chou-Talalay.
Oh, Chou-Talalay.
Yeah.
Okay. Combination index. Okay.
Let me just ask a larger question.
You're finishing up your thesis, and congratulations.
A very nice-
Oh, thank you
... project.
If you had unlimited time and money, what's your next
experiment? What are you going to do with this?
Well, in the relatively short term, we're
trying to
further combine this with chemotherapy and cetuximab to see if the triple
combination can lead to a better
effect. And because also combining with chemotherapy also
creates a greater clinical value because that's... Yeah. So.
Okay.
Sounds good.
Any questions?
Yeah, a very good talk. Maybe this is an extended question to Dr.
Beck. And I think right now we all know
immunotherapy doesn't work well in colorectal cancer.
So have you think about through your strategy,
can somehow improve or enhance the response
to immunotherapy?
Well, that's a good question. We didn't look very
closely to the immune aspect for this combination.
So colorectal cancer majorly, for immunotherapy, is
either the MSS or MSI status. But for
our study, we didn't observe a very different response
in MSS versus MSI for our
combination. But I think, yeah, we can definitely look into that, so.
The reason I ask this question because based on the recent
RAS
conference, people said lots of RAS inhibitor couldn't
work well, the response is poor. Gradually, they have intent
to combine immunotherapy with the RAS inhibitor.
Well, I think
many people are doing that. I think that's definitely a good next
step. But, yeah.
Okay. Great job. Thank you.
Thank you.
Let's welcome next speaker. It's Tom
Yaron-Barrier from Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.
Thank you. Hi, everyone. Thank you for the opportunity to speak in here.
My name is Tom Yaron-Barrier. I'm currently a pediatric resident at Boston
Children's and a researcherAnd a researcher at
Dana-Farber.
And today I want to tell you about a project that
we have been working on for the past maybe 12 years, called the Kinase Library, the
Atlas of the Human Kinome.
These are my disclosures. I'm a co-founder of Maride Therapeutics, leveraging this
technology for cancer therapeutics and D-Stroke, which related to stroke.
So we all know the central dogma of biology, DNA becomes RNAs, becomes a
protein. What we're really looking at is the next step, what comes after.
The whole world of chemical modifications after the protein getting
translated, and what we call the post-translational modification world.
There are 100 of them. Acetylation, methylation, glycosylation.
We heard about many of them so far already.
We are looking specifically at protein phosphorylation.
Now, the motivation for the Kinase Library is the fact that
today we have almost 300,000
phospho-sites were identified so far, with less than
5% of these sites
getting linked to any upstream kinase or pathway.
And the reason for that is because in order for a phosphorylation to
occur, a lot of things need to happen.
You need to be expressing the same tissue, see each other, we just heard about it,
you have mutants, et cetera.
But at the very moment of the phosphorylation when it happens, there is a
very specific biochemical affinity between the kinase and the
substrate, and without that, nothing will happen.
Everything can align. If you don't have that affinity, it will not happen.
If you have a good fit, phosphorylation will occur.
If you don't have a good fit, the phosphorylation will simply not occur.
So this is the single-most important assumption for the
Kinase Library, and this is that protein kinase is selective for the neighboring
amino acids around this phosphoacceptor.
So whenever a protein kinase would encounter a potential phosphorylation site, it
will take a look at the minus positions on the left and the plus position on the
right, and different protein kinases would like to see different amino
acid at different positions, like a lock and a key.
That is what we call the substrate specificity or the kinase motif.
And the question of the Kinase Library is, can we decipher these
motifs for different kinases? And if we can, can we do it for the
entire human kinome?
So the Kinase Library is an ambitious project started in the '90s, was really put
into effort about 12 years ago with Gerard Johnson, who carried out all the
experiments. I am the computational part of that project.
And the base of the Kinase Library is we're using combinatorial peptide
libraries, where we scan literally every single amino acid in
every single position of a 10 amino acid sequence window, and we
put it in a kinase assay with recombinant kinases, and we look at the
specificity of each individual kinase.
So this is how it looks. This is, for example, the kinase motif for the PKA
kinases. On the top, you have the positions from minus five to plus four.
That's how the library was designed.
On the left, you have 20 amino acids, plus two
already modified amino acids, so you can even see how an existing
phosphorylation can affect a nearby phosphorylation.
And then the darker the spot is, the more favorable that is.
So if we take a look at the PKA, for example, a very known kinase, minus five
position is almost no favorability.
Minus four position, nothing. Minus three and minus two, strong
favorability for arginine, maybe some lysine.
Minus one position, nothing.
Plus one position, I challenge you to take a look.
It looks like it has nothing really, but it has a very important feature.
If you take a look at the plus one proline, you're going to see there is not even a
background noise. That suggests that we have some strong negative
selectivity for plus one proline, which turns out to be a very important
feature of kinase signaling. So here on the right, this is motif
from one day of experiment. Took years to perfect that, but one day of experiment.
This is five decades of collecting substrates one by one.
I think there's a pretty good alignment that I would still claim that here we have
more information than here, especially when it comes to negative
selectivity.
So for the past decade or so, Gerard has characterized
404 kinases. We have the serine/threonine kinome and the tyrosine kinome,
effectively covering every single active protein kinase of the human kinome and
give us a picture of the entire tree.
So how do we use that? Let's say that now you have your favorite site, the most
studied maybe phospho site, serine 15 on p53, getting activated upon DNA
damage.
You simply plug it into the puzzle and you play.
You take every corresponding amino acid at every corresponding position,
and you get a score. Positive score is good, negative score is bad, zero score is
about neutral. Sure enough, if you put that serine 15 into the Kinase
Library, the four kinases at the very top would be ATM, SMG1,
ATR, and DNA-PK, the four DNA damage kinases.
Now, you don't need to believe me. If you just take a look at the plus one
glutamine, the SQ motif.
Plus one glutamine is the single most important feature of that, by the way, is an
ATM matrix.
So this is nice when you have a single site and you want to know, I need to get a
lead for maybe what kinase might be upstream.
And if you're lucky, you have a few of them.
If you are less lucky, you have many of them.
But the bigger question of the Kinase Library is can we use that in order to infer
kinase activity from high-throughput phosphoproteomics data?
So the way that we do that, all you need to know moving forward is that we have a
black box where you have an input as a substrate and an output as a
prediction for all the human kinome.
And I hope that by now you believe me that it's not even a black box, it's a
transparent box. Okay? It's all based on the motifs.
What we do is you're interested in a specific phosphoproteomics experiment,
specific condition. You do quantitative phosphoproteomics, and you compare two
condition, with or without the drug. KRAS mutant versus wild type.
Anything you want, and you get quantitative phosphoproteomics.
We split your data into three buckets.
Upregulated sites, downregulated sites, and unregulated sites.
The Kinase Library asks the following question: can we find
kinases that are more often predicted among up or
downregulated sites than they are predicted among the unregulated
sites?It's all based on predictions.
But can we see some trend? Can we see some kinases showing up more often at the top
of your predictions, more than I would expect just by chance?
And can that really suggest some clinical activity of these kinases?
We do it by two methods. We have a Fisher test, which works very well if you have
enough sites, or by MEA, which is more as a
GSEA-type ranked permutation test if you have less sites.
And both of them will eventually tell you what is the kinase activity
based on the sequence only. I'm emphasizing it.
We have no other biological information, no tissue expression, no
co-domain, no interactions, simply based on the sequence window around every
phospho site and its regulation upon your perturbation.
So I want to show you two quick examples how we use that out of many.
This is a beautiful paper by Forest White from MIT, where they try to
see how a BRAF inhibition will work dynamically
downstream on the MEK/ERK pathway, and we just
heard a beautiful talk about this whole cascade.
So what they did, they took melanoma cell lines, they treated them with the BRAF
inhibitor,
and they measured the phosphoproteome
in a lot of different time points. What you see here is the activation loop of the
ERK1 and ERK2. After giving the drug, they're getting
inhibited, and then they lift off the drug after 72 hours and let the cell
recover. Now, let's say that it was 50 years ago, you would have the
kinase library, but you would know nothing about BRAF.
You want to ask what is downstream of BRAF by inhibiting it and
see what is changing.
Fifteen minutes in, you can already see an inhibition of the ERK.
Okay? So that means that among the phospho sites
that were downregulated after 15 minutes of BRAF inhibition, if I look
only at the motif and I match them to the kinase library, the ERK
motif seems to match more motifs than expected just by chance.
Forty-five minutes, the ERK are going higher.
Twelve hours, there is complete inhibition of the ERK in the cell.
Now, for whoever of you that ever worked with that pathway, you probably know that
we also get a cell cycle arrest, but that's happened only usually after 24
hours. And sure enough, after 24 hours of BRAF inhibition, we start to
see CDK inhibition as well.
Seventy-two hours and 24 hours with no drug, we see some cell recovery, and
six days later, there is absolutely no signal or sign to ERK
inhibition whatsoever.
So just to summarize that, you can see an inhibition of the ERK becoming stronger
and stronger. Twenty-four hours mark, you start to see the CDKs coming up,
and then a full cell recovery till the end.
UV radiation, a completely different cascade.
Our collaborators radiated cells and measured the phosphoproteome
across different time points.
Now, we all know what we expect to see, right? The DNA damage.
But how did that dynamic work?
One minute. One minute of radiation, immediately you start to see strong
stress pathways, all the MAPK/APKs.
You start to see CHK1 and CHK2, the rapid response for DNA damage.
Five minutes, you start to see the ATM/ATR creeping up.
Still a lot of stress in the cell. Fifteen minutes, still a lot of stress in
the cell. After 30 minutes, the DNA damage kinase is
completely over the entire signaling in the cell while having still some
stress in the background, suggesting that this also can tell you not only about the
activity but also about the temporal dynamic.
So how do we use it? We actually use it in every field of medicine that has
phosphorylation related to the pathophysiology, which is literally every field of
medicine. Of course, oncology a lot. Endocrinology with diabetes.
Lupus, we have a lupus project. Neurodegenerative become a hot topic nowadays.
We even have a COVID project. It's really relevant for any
pathophysiology involving protein kinases.
So I would like to end with a quick note of where we're headed from now.
What we're working on right now these days, together with some consortia,
is to really try to translate that tool into personalized
medicine and therapeutics by drug discovery, biomarker
identification, with the end goal of being able to treat patients not
based on genomics marker or
tissue, but really based on the activated signaling that happens
in the cell.
And I will finish by saying that it's probably a very ambitious
and potent field. Just three months ago, the FDA just
approved the 100th kinase inhibitor.
But this whole $70 billion market is centered around
5% of the human kinome, with 25
kinases only. Ninety-five percent of the kinases are either not targeted or
even worse, are completely unknown.
So with that, I would like to invite you to use that. This is an open-source tool.
We have a Python package. We have a web tool on the PhosphoSitePlus
hosted by CST. You can play around with that.
I would like to thank, really, the people that drove it.
Lou Cantley, who is the father of this project for many, many years, and Jared
Johnson, who ran all the experiments for that, as well as multiple of our
collaborators, and I'm happy to take any
questions.
Questions?
Hi, my name is Kartik. I work at Bristol Myers Squibb.
I had a question about your introduction slide where you mentioned that
only a small fraction of the phosphoproteome has known kinases,
at least based on resources like PhosphoSitePlus.
Based on these approaches, how much more of the phosphoproteome are you
able to annotate with an upstream kinase?
So
you can annotate the entire human kinome, and we will do that a lot with an
upcoming publication that we had with Steve Gygi that we
annotated the dark phosphoproteome with that.
The biggest question is to validate that.
And we can see there is a very nice figure in one of the papers kind of showing
that we have two categories of substrates.
One of them is what we call the very selective one, that you have very few kinases
at the top, and one that has a lot of kinases at the top.
And the ones that are more promiscuous
are sites that we think can be convergent.
So not only that we need to validate specific targets,
we know that they have a lot of sites with multiple
targets. The annotation is there,
but now the biology needs to happen.
And maybe a quick-- Sorry. If there's time for one more question.
It's not a one-to-one relationship between kinases and substrates.
Some kinases phosphorylate multiple substrates.
Some substrates, some phosphorylated by multiple kinases.
In these enrichment approaches, do you end up sort of biasing
towards kinases that have more
activity across substrates? Are you able to find
more unique kinases showing up that are less or rather
more selective?
Yes, this is a great question. We've been thinking about it for years now.
The simple answer is that mathematically, we are accounting for the
baseline
phosphorylation, so we are not completely biased toward kinases
that are more active with more sites.
That being said, if you have more active sites, your statistics will be stronger.
And right now, we're actually, as we speak, working on a method to try to account
for that promiscuity exactly to come up with kinases that are much
more selective, like MEK, BRAF, that we think have very few
sites in order to see them coming up.
Thank you.
Yes, sir.
Yeah. Thank you so much. Great talk.
So I know your code uses the motifs scoring system,
right? I was just wondering if your code-- And it's kind of similar in vein
to the previous question. Does it account for the
substrate volume or even
sometimes the kinases have similar motif even.
Are those confounding factors included in your code?
Yeah. So I want to say that it's
more of a philosophical question because very often our collaborators ask us, for
example, to split between CdK1 and 2.
Now, if you have a CdK1 substrate, as you said, the motif is very similar.
I would be very
surprised and worried if I could split them because I would say that means that
something is wrong. I will say that what we were surprisingly--
We found that ATM and ATR, for example, very similar
motif. When our same collaborators treated cells with ATR inhibitor, we were
able to split it out of the rest of the group.
That being said, on purpose, we are giving you the
whole family, and then it's on the scientist to go
and drill it farther down because we'd rather give you the more
comprehensive information rather than say, to have more false negative, if
that makes sense.
Yeah. Thank you so much.
So, thank you. Let me just ask a question.
So
I'm an old guy, and I've got a kinase inhibitor, a really potent
one,
and I want to know if
it has selectivity against a particular
tumor type or a
pattern of broad activity against a lot of different tumors.
Mm-hmm.
How do I use the kinase library to, first of all,
tell me where this might work, and will
the kinase library give me
histotype specificity and/or clues as to
what kind of combination therapy I can use with
this inhibitor?
Yeah, absolutely. I love this question.
So that's the first thing that we did, and that's the most go-to of
the kinase library. You have an inhibitor.
You can treat cells of your choice. You choose your origin. You choose the tissue.
You can do it across tissue types. You can do it across one specific tissue, and
then you plug it to the kinase library.
First, it will tell you whether you actually target the kinase that you want to
target. What I think is much more promising and exciting, and that's part of the
work that we are doing in the lab as well as at the new startup, is
what are the off-target effects and what are the resistance mechanism coming from
it. And if we look historically into kinase
inhibitors, probably the biggest win of oncology, even today's
imatinib, Gleevec.
And I think that we think more and more that the beauty of imatinib
Gleevec is not the able inhibition but the off-target
effects that it happened to have that we're able to see with the kinase library.
So we're able to pick up off-target effect as well as resistance
mechanism from that. So the answer to your question is, yes.
You take that inhibitor, you give it to cell tissues, you do the kinase
library,
and from my experience, you will find very promising results
already.
Okay, thank you. Just to follow up on that,
since you have shown us the iceberg slide
where a lot of kinases
or the phosphoproteins have not been identified yet, and you've
shown us the kinome-
Mm-hmm
... have all the kinases in the kinome-
Yeah
... been identified?
Yeah. All the one that Jared was able to get active-
Okay
... which is effectively covering everything.
Okay. So there's a chance to
really drill down on a new therapy.
Hopefully. Coming soon.
That's great. That's exciting.
Thank you very much.
Any other questions?
Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
Thank you.
We ran out a little bit of time. And welcome the next speaker,
and it's Patrick Sauer from CHOP.
Hello, everybody. Welcome to the next talk, and thanks a lot for
selecting my abstract for presentation.
Please speak into the microphone.
More into the microphone like this? All right.
So we're over at CHOP. We're a neuroblastoma lab, and we do
CAR T-cells. And before I dive in, the only disclosure I
have is a pending patent related to the talk right
now.
But for the ones who might be familiar with the work of my boss, he is
a pediatrician. He treats patients with neuroblastoma.
He got famous for co-discovering GPC2 as a novel target
on neuroblastoma, and he has had quite some success in
generating GPC2 CAR T-cells that are
currently being explored in an ongoing clinical
trial.Over at CHOP, including
patients with neuroblastoma and also metastatic retinoblastoma.
Just as a shameless stop, tomorrow I have another talk on next generation
CAR T-cell designs on GPC2, but for today,
I'd like to focus on CHRNA3. So
pretty much all the success that we had with GPC2 kind of
motivated us to go back to the drawing board and look for novel
targets.
And we did this using a published bioinformatics pipeline
called ImmunoTar, and you can basically feed it any kind of data set,
be it from the RNA world or from the protein world.
And that allows you to rank and prioritize
potential cell surface targets amenable for immunotherapy.
And then, as a validation for our approach, we found many known
targets such as DLK1, EGFR, ALK, but in addition to that,
we also found some completely unknown stuff to us, which included
CHRNA3.
So CHRNA3 is a peculiar hit given that it is a subunit.
It belongs to the family of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors,
and
you might be familiar with those kind of receptors, but if not, just for this
talk, you have to memorize that there are different subunits,
typically belonging to the alpha or beta classification, and
those subunits can be shuffled together into heteropentamers
or homopentamers.
From the ImmunoTar screen, we knew that CHRNA3 was high
in neuroblastoma, but we took an unbiased look, and these are all the alpha and the
beta subunits, and you can see that we also saw overexpression of
A5 and B4, but also other subunits.
Next, we
were interested in what correlates with CHRNA3 and saw that A5 and
B4 actually positive correlate with
CHRNA3.
And that then kind of made sense when we looked at the gene locus of these genes,
we saw that A3, A5, and B4 all cluster
together on chromosome 15. We also found this super enhancer
upstream of this gene cluster.
And we also noted that a lot of known transcription factors that are known to
drive neuroblastoma pathogenesis mapped into
this super enhancer region.
Next, we collaborated with a lab that also did some Hi-C seq
screen for us, and we could see that indeed, the super enhancer regions
do interact physically with the promoter elements of the downstream
Alpha 3 and Beta 4 genes.
We next took that super enhancer and, basically, we took all
super enhancers and we quantified them, and then we ranked them according to
importance,
and this is what you see here are just different neuroblastoma cell lines that
are all high for A3, B4, and you can basically see that there are
several tens of thousands of promoter and enhancer elements,
but the one promoter that we looked at, or the one super enhancer
consistently ranks high in all of these cell lines.
And in accordance in the one low cell line that we had in there, that super
enhancer ranked low. In addition to that, there is a mesenchymal cell
line
that also ranked low where we saw high repressive marks.
So in conclusion, we saw that using ImmunoTar, we found that A3 is
overexpressed, but not only A3, we saw B4 and A5 are high
too. This is normal tissue, so it shows you kind of a nice
therapeutic window.
Next, we had to prove that this is real in the protein world, so we did a bunch of
western blots and IHC and then basically saw that human
neuroblastoma tumors, also human PDXs, express high
levels of the Alpha 3 subunit, which greatly
exceeds what you find in normal tissue.
Next, I had to prove that those two actually form a complex, so I did some
IPs, basically proving that A3 binds to B4.
We then next did some shRNA experiments.
So what you see down here are again three cell lines, neuroblastoma cell
lines, and when we knocked out or knocked down
CHRNA3, we also lost B4 in some sort of an
indirect effect.
Again, kind of pointing towards the fact that those two do form a complex.
And then the next question was how to target CHRNA3?
Basically, A3 exists in context of many different subunits.
This is just based off literature.
We saw that the A3, B4 was the most relevant for neuroblastoma.
We generated our own binders, but in addition to that, we also
appropriated an existing antibody that bound
conveniently into the A3, B4 interface.
And then from PyMOL, I just extracted the amino acid sequence, and then to the
best of my knowledge, kind of mapped the CDRs and generated
two binders that we call DiscoBinder-1 and DiscoBinder-2, which
is short for dual interacting subunit complex specific
binders.
So then next, I had to prove that basically, that binder only
recognizes A3, B4, which is shown here on top.
You can see that only double positive target cells
get bound by this binder. Encouragingly, also a bunch of
neuroblastoma PDXs
express high levels of A3, B4, which we're able to stain here.
And then next, we generated CAR T-cells, just
kind of settled for a standard second gen CD28
format. And this slide here basically shows that the
CARs only get activated by double positive target
cells, but do not kill target cells that are
just positive for one of the subunits or don't express any of the
subunits. And then we're able to also kill a bunch of neuroblastoma
cell lines in a dish.
And down here, you just see the T-cell activation, obviously, again,
going hand-in-hand with the killing observed up
hereAnd then we move this in vivo.
Basically, the 453X is just a neuroblastoma PDX, and you can
see we get some initial tumor regression, which improves the survival of these
treated mice. We confirmed this in a second
PDX, 44X. And again, you can see there's some nice
tumor regression going on there, and which greatly improves the
survival of these mice.
Next, we kind of pushed the system.
We took antigen low and also a very heterogeneous tumor called
496. And you can see that a single dose of
DISCO CAR T cells
only moderately controlled the tumors.
But then when we added a second injection, that greatly
improved the efficacy of this therapy, again, increasing
the survival of double-injected mice, shown here at the bottom
in red.
Then I took advantage of the fact that we had a retino expert at
that time in the lab called Guillem, and he helped me to set up
also retino models. So basically, this is a tumor that occurs in the eye.
And you can see here is the control group that just received a non-targeting
CAR. And on the right, you see the mice that received the
DISCO CAR, and you can see that a single intravitreal, so
into the eye, one dose of CAR T cells, greatly
reduces the tumor burden in these mice.
And then we tracked ocular survival.
Basically, the end stage of retino is that the eyes become proptotic and kind of
prop out of the skull, and this is something that we could follow.
And we saw that ocular survival was guaranteed in these mice.
And in approximately half of the mice, we were also able to cure these mice
from the retinoblastoma disease.
Kind of as an outlook, we also see there are other
neuroendocrine tumors, including small cell lung cancer.
We went into published data sets, and we saw that also
c-Mycn RNA3 is overexpressed in these tumors, and also
B5. And in addition to that, also A5 seems to be very high in these tumors.
And in accordance, we also went and looked into ChIP-seq data that was publicly
available and saw that the superenhancer again ranked prominently
high in
these A3B4 high cell lines.
And then, if we still have time, this is just kind of like an outlook slide.
This is stuff that we're currently doing. We're looking at the biology of this hit.
So, interestingly, we see these are the A3
knockdown clones, and you can see that they are able to close
scratch wounds faster. They're also able to migrate
faster in 3D. These are Matrigel invasion
assays. So once the cells lose A3B4, they invade
faster. You can do the reverse. You can overexpress A3B4 in a
low cell line, and they stop migrating.
In addition to that, we did some
neurite differentiation assays and also saw that those
knockdown clones stopped differentiating when we added ATRA.
We did some RNA-seq. Again, saw a lot of EMT
gene sets enriching. And this is also something we followed up
on a Western blot, basically showing that they switch cell state, becoming
more mesenchymal once they lose A3, as shown here
by the loss of adrenergic markers such as NCAM,
FOX2B, while a lot of mesenchymal markers are
upregulated, including vimentin, vinculin, and YAP1.
So, I think I'm out of time, but we also looked at some antigen downregulation
stuff.
We see modest downregulation, but just to wrap it up,
I think our findings credential the family of nicotinic acetylcholine
receptors as a novel family of
immunotherapeutic targets.
By the way we designed our
binders, we're able to really nitpick a certain
receptor confirmation that is relevant for this disease.
Obviously, this approach broadens the targetable
surfasome.
And yeah, this also seems to be relevant for other neuroendocrine tumors.
And with that, I would like to thank my mentor, Chris Bosse, everybody in
the lab who helped out,
funding agencies, and thank you to you for your
attention.
Thank you for this very interesting presentation, Dr. Schwartz.
Questions?
While you're formulating your questions, let me ask you, it's a unique
target,
this muscarinic acetylcholine receptor.
And what other
tissues is it found in? You gave us an example in
retinoblastoma and lung cancer. I'm guessing that was small
cell lung cancer.
That was small cell lung cancer, yeah.
And so that's rather unique with this neuroendocrine
take on this. Do
neural tissues only express the alpha 3 beta 4,
or these neuroendocrine tumors only alpha 3 beta 4, or are there
other muscarinic
acetylcholine receptors expressed? So other combinations.
Yeah. So,
in neuroblastoma, we see high A7, which is a
homopentamer.
Also, A7 is expressed in other cancer types such as medulloblastomas and
mesotheliomas.
But again, in neuroblastoma, it seems to be mainly A3B4, and in addition to
that, the A7 homopentamer.
Okay.
No questions yet? Is there a
developmental aspect to this? Does the ratio
A3 beta 4 change as
neural tissue grows or as it transforms to malignant tissue?
So that's a very good question. This A3B4
combination seems to be present both in primitive and more mature tissues.
It's definitely expressed, especially in the peripheral nervous system in
autonomic ganglia.
But following up on your question, there are other acetylcholine
receptor subunits that are only expressed in fetal tissues such as
ChRng, and interestingly, these subunits are again
re-expressed in pediatric tumors such as sarcomas, but they're completely
absent in healthy adult tissue. So-
Okay
... that's a great question.
One last question. As a pharmacologist,
your experiments with CAR T cells are really quite
elegant.
Have you just thought of putting tubocurarine on these cells
to see if you can inhibit their growth?
And if so, maybe you can modify tubocurarine and make
it a therapeutic agent rather than a poison dart.
Yeah. We did think about this initially, especially when we didn't have the
binder. So there are a bunch of those peptides isolated from
those marine sponges or whatever, or marine snails that do inhibit a lot of
acetylcholine receptors.
We were just kind of afraid that we would probably create some sort of a bioweapon
if we were to use those inhibitors and infuse them into a patient.
But at least as an experimental tool, people are using those
venoms and toxins as an experimental reagent, but then
in a patient, it might be a bit risky.
Yeah.
Well, there are lots of examples in the literature where
poisons can be modified and be very selective.
That is true, yeah. But yeah.
Yeah. Fair. If there are no other questions, thank you so much. That was great.
Yeah. Thank you. Yeah.
Let's move to the next speaker,
Jackson Fatheree from
the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center.
Thanks so much for that introduction, and thanks to Dr.
Sawyer and the previous speaker for giving a little primer on neuroendocrine
tumors to take a bit of the pressure off me.
But I'll be talking today about small cell lung cancer, which, as we
just mentioned, is a neuroendocrine tumor of the lung.
It's one of the most aggressive lung tumors you can get, metastatic
in about three out of four cases before diagnosis.
And five-year survival right now under systemic chemotherapy and
PD-L1 immune checkpoint blockade remains just about 10%.
So this is a really dismal cancer. And one of the reasons for these poor
outcomes is this sort of clinical trajectory where treatment-naive
tumors are highly chemosensitive upfront, but rapidly
switch to chemo-resistant phenotypes in a matter of months in most cases.
So we think that describing the mechanisms that underlie this switch is a really
promising path to improving patient outcomes.
My colleague had begun studying this by performing in vivo CRISPR
activation screens, where we take a catalytically dead Cas9 protein
fused to several transcriptional activation domains.
We can express that whole complex in a highly chemosensitive PDX model,
follow that up with a library of guide RNAs, in this case, a focused library
targeting 400 genes that are either amplified in small cell or
otherwise relevant to small cell biology.
We really rapidly return those cells to mice, and then we can treat the resulting
tumors with either a saline control or cisplatin double
chemotherapy. And these tumors regress quite rapidly on
chemotherapy, but similar to patients, will then relapse off treatment,
at which point we can sequence the tumors to look for guide RNAs that are enriched
specifically upon chemotherapy treatment.
So in these waterfall plots, where each vertical line is an individual tumor from
these screens, you can see that the top hit in both arms of this screen was
MYCN, which is a known powerful oncogene in small cell lung cancer, as well as a
driver of chemoresistance based on our work.
So this is a really nice positive control for the screen.
But we were also really excited to see enrichment of guides targeting this gene
called REST, which is a transcriptional repressor of neuronal and
neuroendocrine gene expression, specifically enriched in the chemotherapy-treated
tumors.
So REST is widely expressed in essentially all non-neuronal tissues,
and its primary function is to bind to the promoters of
neuronal and neuroendocrine genes, recruit repressive complexes, and
restrict expression of those genes.
And then when REST is degraded or displaced, as in the early stages of
neural differentiation, you get ejection of those complexes
enabling expression of neuronal genes.
As small cell is a highly neuroendocrine tumor, it typically
expresses essentially no REST. But there is this clear subset
of small cell, at 20% of tumors, that have really high levels of REST
expression and will deplete neuroendocrine markers, and this is also associated
with increased activation of tumor inflammatory pathways.
But to this point, studying these phenotypes in the field has been really difficult
due to a lack of in vivo models. So I'll show a few ways that we're trying to
address this gap.
First, taking that same PDX model that the screen was performed in, I've engineered
that to overexpress REST, which you can see here, which led to a really nice
downregulation of canonical neuroendocrine markers chromogranin and INS1,
and transcriptionally repressed a broad gene signature associated with the
neuroendocrine small cell phenotype.
The control tumors in this experiment regress really rapidly with just a single
cycle of cisplatin and topotecan chemotherapy.
But as we suspected, overexpression of REST confers a really striking
chemoresistant phenotype in this model.
And we can confirm this by IHC for phosphorylated histone H3 and
cleaved caspase-3 to measure proliferation and apoptosis, respectively, in these
tumors. And you can see here in the control tumors,
cisplatin and topotecan really powerfully arrests growth and induces cell death,
but has very little effect on either phenotype in the REST overexpressing
tumors.So to ask what the molecular signals
underlying Rest overexpression that might link this to chemoresistance, we analyzed
the genes upregulated upon Rest overexpression and saw that Notch signaling was
really highly enriched
with Rest, driven by multiple Notch receptors and downstream Notch target genes.
And we can validate this at the protein level by western blotting for the
intracellular domain of Notch1 and Notch3, as well as the downstream effector
Hes1.
And finally, to establish a causative role for Rest-driven Notch signaling in
mediating chemoresistance, we repeated this experiment with a gamma secretase
inhibitor to blunt Notch signaling, and you can see that really returns
the Hes1 levels back to baseline and restores the
striking chemosensitivity that we typically see in the control versions of this
model.
But as I mentioned at the beginning, chemotherapy is really only one part of the
current standard of care, with all patients since essentially 2019
receiving PD-L1 immune checkpoint blockade.
But you can see in these clinical trial results, these durable long-term responses
are still very, very rare. So we're very interested in learning what defines these
patients.
One of the major features that folks have studied in the field at this
point is MHC1 tumor antigen presentation, which is typically silenced
in small cell tumors, but is reactivated in a small subset of patients who
typically respond better to checkpoint blockade, and this is associated with
reduced neuroendocrine differentiation.
Notch signaling has also emerged as a key mediator of MHC1 antigen
presentation, and it also is associated with better outcomes in
real-world data under checkpoint.
So given our findings placing Rest above Notch signaling in this
pathway, we're really curious to learn if Rest drives immune phenotypes in small
cell lung cancer. So a fellow postdoc in the lab had begun to study these
sorts of things by generating a novel genetic mouse model
introducing the human Rest allele into the well-established Rb
P53 deficient mouse model of small cell lung cancer.
So the control is the RP model, and our new one is called the RP Rest model.
And we see that the addition of Rest provides a modest survival benefit, about a
month extension of median survival.
When we look at endpoint tumors, we were surprised to find that only about half of
them have detectable Rest protein, which suggests some level of
potentially immune selection against Rest in these mice.
That said, the Rest positive tumors do show a striking depletion of
ASCL1 target genes, as well as a general neuroendocrine signature.
And these tumors are instead enriched for gene sets associated with interferon
gamma response and MHC1 antigen presentation, which correlates with
greater infiltration of immune cells like CD8 T cells and macrophages in
these tumors. So this is showing us that Rest really is capable of driving
a low neuroendocrine inflamed phenotype of small cell.
To study this more acutely, we take a cell line derived from the RP control
tumor, which we've termed RP48 here, and engineer it in the lab to
overexpress Rest in vitro, where again, we see a pretty striking
downregulation of canonical neuroendocrine features of chromogranin and
synaptophysin in this case. And we can induce MHC1 antigen
presentation in these cells using interferon gamma, where we see a greater response
in the RP48 Rest cells shown here in orange.
And this is associated with greater induction of
MHC1 antigen presentation machinery such as B2M shown here.
So we wanted to ask if this increased immunogenicity driven by Rest is capable
of altering immune responses in vivo.
So we took these cells and generated syngeneic allografts in immune competent
Black 6 mice, treated them with PD-1 checkpoint blockade, and then
used flow cytometry and single-cell sequencing to characterize the tumor
microenvironment.
And similar to patients, the control tumors in this experiment do not really
respond to checkpoint at all. But we were pretty excited to see that
Rest overexpression conferred quite a striking sensitivity to PD-1 checkpoint
blockade.
In our flow cytometry data, this was associated with modestly increased immune
infiltration in the absence of checkpoint, which is dramatically increased upon
delivery of checkpoint, and this is driven in part by an expansion of CD8 T
cells in the immune microenvironment.
We can validate this in single-cell sequencing data where we can characterize the
immune microenvironment, and I'll point you to three clusters of CD8
effector T cells that we identify, including an expanding population, your
cytolytic effectors, and an exhausted population.
And when we look at the relative abundance of these clusters in control tumors
versus Rest overexpressing tumors, we can see a massive expansion of both the
proliferating and the cytolytic clusters with very little change in accumulation
of exhausted CD8 T cells in these tumors.
And finally, we wanted to identify any signals from the tumor
cells in the Rest overexpressing tumors that might explain this dramatic
immune microenvironment remodeling.
So we perform clustering on the control and Rest overexpressing tumor cells.
We sort these clusters based on their enrichment in control tumors versus Rest
tumors, and you can see Rest overexpression is tightly linked to the cells
from the appropriate tumors.
And we looked at neuroendocrine gene expression, which, as we expected, is
generally reduced in RP48 Rest tumors.
But we identified this one, cluster four, that essentially completely silences all
neuroendocrine transcriptional programs shown up here.
And when we characterized that population, we were excited to find that it is
specifically enriched for Notch signaling, shown here by enrichment of the hallmark
pathway,
which is reminiscent of our findings in the PDX model.
So this makes us hypothesize that this cluster is really key for
underlying that sensitivity to immune checkpoint blockade and
microenvironment remodeling. And consistent with that model, we found that this
cluster also very specifically expresses a whole host of
pro-inflammatory features. Here I'm showing CX3CL1, which we suspect is
a key feature in driving that T cell recruitment and expansion
underlying checkpoint responses.
So I hope I've given you a good picture of the neuroendocrine heterogeneity
that we see in small cell patients and how we believe that Rest expression, and
by extension, alterations in the extent of neuroendocrine differentiation
can modulate responses to both chemotherapy and immune checkpoint
blockade.And of course, I'd like to thank my lab,
many of whom are here today, past members who contributed to this work, our core
facilities, and our funding sources, and I'd be happy to take any questions.
Thank you.
Thank you. This really interesting presentation is open
for discussion now.
Any questions?
Well, while you're formulating a question, let me ask a question.
Given that the relationship of Rest and
Notch,
have you thought of modulating this with a
gamma secretase inhibitor, for example?
Yeah, for sure. So that's actually, I didn't get too deep into it, but we do use a
gamma secretase inhibitor in the PDX model, and that's how we're able to blunt
Notch signaling. We haven't gotten to the point where we're utilizing that in the
immune competent setting. But that's definitely a key
idea for us is placing Notch as a causative role for driving
MHC-1 under Rest and many of those inflammatory phenotypes.
Yeah. Really interesting. And I think I'd be remiss
as co-chair if I didn't
ask you, do these small cell
lung cancer cells overexpress muscarinic
acetylcholine receptors?
Well, it turns out, yes.
And we saw that, yes. So the converse would
be,
do your neuroblastoma cells overexpress
Rest?
So what I suspect, just based on the two cell lines from small cell I saw, those
are going to be more of the ASCL1, highly neuroendocrine, very Rest
low. So I'd be pretty curious, but I suspect, with Rest
overexpression, we'd sort of see the inversion of that, where they, while gaining
these other inflammatory markers, are losing that
acetylcholine receptor phenotype.
I can't guarantee that, but that's what I would suspect.
It's really interesting. I don't know about you all, but this is really quite an
educational experience for me. It's great.
Any other questions for Dr. Fothari?
If not, thank you, sir.
All right. Thank you so much.
Okay. Let's move to next speaker.
It's
Marilo Ramos Recha from John
Hopkins School of Public Health.
Hello. Good afternoon, everyone.
I would like to thank the organizers for the opportunity to present my
work. And speaking. Yeah. And I will
present
the work I have been developing, which concerns how an
age-related phenotypic change in melanoma can create a tumor
vulnerability to ferroptosis.
These are my disclosures.
We know that as the population of the world ages,
cancer burden has become a public health challenge.
Population of 65 years and older
will have more than double the number of new cancer
cases by the year of 2045, while younger
individuals will have only a 30% increase.
And that holds true in melanoma, with aging being an
independent poor prognostic factor,
with incidence increasing with age,
women showing this age-dependent increase, but particularly
males show a steeper increase related to age.
And when it concerns to mortality, patients that are older than
65 years old have five times higher the mortality.
And after the
inclusion of immune checkpoint
inhibitors, there has been no significant reduction in the last
five years.
Melanoma starts in the melanocytes that are present
in the basal layer of the epidermis, which will grow
uncontrollably, both radially and vertically,
invading the dermis and then reaching lymphatic or blood
vessels.
And in the Randa lab, it has been shown
multiple ways through which the tumor microenvironment,
particularly in the age setting, can change this
melanoma progression by changes in the extracellular matrix,
by secretive factors from dermal fibroblasts that will then impact
tumor growth, invasion, angiogenesis, and even
therapeutic resistance.
But when we look at the healthy skin of young and aged
mice, and we compare the healthy skin of a six-month-old mice and a
15-month-old mice, we see that there is an enrichment
of a few pathways in the aged skin. And among
them, we were very interested to see that a ferroptosis
pathway was present in the top three hits.
Ferroptosis is a form of non-caspase-mediated
cell death that can be driven by increase in lipid
iron pool, but most particularly by a redox imbalance,
changes in the lipid metabolism,
like an increase of polyunsaturated fatty acids in comparison to
monounsaturated fatty acids, which will eventually lead to an
accumulation of lipid peroxides in the membrane that will
then rupture and lead to cell death.
The major mechanism of control of that is the
glutathione peroxidase 4,
which will then change lipid peroxides into lipid alcohols, which are
non-toxic to the cell.
The aged skin
does show, as we saw in the pathway enrichment, an accumulation
of 4-HNE, which is a lipid peroxidation byproduct,
particularly in men, where we see a correlation with age
and the age score for 4-HNE in the skin, something that we
don't see in women.When we look at the
young and aged skin of mice, we see that this GPX4
does decrease as age
increases. And when we look at the whole skin proteome and
in a broader range of ages, we see that pro-apoptotic
genes do increase their expression as mice age,
and anti-apoptotic genes have a decrease in the expression in the
skin.
When we look at these dermal fibroblasts present in the skin, we
can see that themselves, they have a pro-apoptotic
signature with a decrease of GPX4 in aged
dermal fibroblasts, which reflects in this increase in
lipid
peroxidation stained here by this sensor, LipoFLUO,
that we confirmed through multiple methodologies.
So our question was if this pro-apoptotic signature in the skin
would translate somehow into the tumor that
would be growing in that microenvironment.
And we collected conditioned media from dermal fibroblasts of
patients
younger than 45 years old or older than
55 years old, and we saw that the conditioned
media from aged dermal fibroblasts was able to
sensitize melanoma cells when paired to a
ferroptosis inducer, RSL3, which is a GPX4
inhibitor.
So our question immediately was if in our in vivo
models we would see melanoma tumors that
grew in an aged skin if they had higher lipid
peroxidation. And we saw that in the YAM1.7 syngeneic
model,
that
these cells, when grown in an aged skin of male mice,
they had higher lipid peroxidation.
When we look at a human melanoma TMA, we saw the same trend
of increase of lipid peroxidation in
aged patients.
So our question was
how we could translate that, and if we could employ a ferroptosis
inducer
to just push this level of lipid peroxidation off the
balance so we could kill these tumors in the aged
setting. So we used four-month-old,
14-month-old, and 24-month-old mice
injected intradermally with YAM1.7 MC3
cells. And when they reached a certain tumor volume, we
employed the use of imidazole ketone erastin, which is
another ferroptosis inducer. And we saw
that particularly the 24-month-old mice had a
reduction in and restriction of tumor growth
after the use of IKE.
IKE, however, is a ferroptosis inducer that doesn't
directly inhibit GPX4, but it
rather blocks the uptake of cysteine into the cell.
So to confirm that this effect was due to ferroptosis
itself and lipid peroxidation, we used the lipid peroxidation
inhibitor and paired with the IKE to prove
that our effects were indeed due to ferroptosis.
And when we did this combination between IKE and lipid peroxidation
inhibitor,
we completely removed the effect of the drug, showing that this is
in fact by ferroptosis and not cysteine depletion.
And our question immediately then was what would be the mechanism
that the aged TME could be driving that is causing
this? And the Uerrano Lab has shown multiple times
that the phenotype switching in melanoma that occurs
when cells go from a proliferative state that is
fast-growing, has a melanocytic phenotype, but
has a lot less metastatic dissemination.
In the aged setting, these cells go to an invasive state where
the cells have an undifferentiated phenotype,
grow a lot slower, but disseminate a lot more.
And when we look at
tumors growing young and aged
skin, we see that MITF is a regulator of the proliferative
state, and it's lower in the aged tumors, while
AXIL and WNT5A are a lot higher in the aged tumors.
So I correlated the transcript levels of
these in a panel of melanoma cells with sensitivity to
RSL3. And
MITF had a nice correlation with
resistance to a ferroptosis inducer, while
AXIL and WNT5A had a correlation with
sensitivity to these drugs, and this was validated in
other ferroptosis inducers.
Interestingly, when we look at the tumors themselves, we can see
that in mouse tumors, WNT5A correlates
spatially with 4HNE in the mouse melanoma tumors.
And there is a correlation when we look at human melanoma TMAs
that patients with higher scores for WNT5A
also have higher scores for lipid peroxidation.
And went to look on into these cells and
looking at a panel of cells that have a WNT5A high level or WNT5A
low, we can see that GPX4 is the main
regulator for ferroptosis, is really downregulated in
cells that express a lot of WNT5A. But not only
GPX4, but also other regulators like
SLC3A2, AIFM2, and
GCH1. And we confirmed the sensitivity in these
cells,
with purple cells here being more sensitive to
RSL3, and these are WNT5A high.
With loss and gain of function, we confirmed
thatBy overexpressing WNT5A, we had a
decrease of MITF, increase of Axil, and a
decrease of GPX4. And while doing the inverse,
we saw that GPX4 increased with the silencing for
WNT5A.
This exploration also showed that overexpression
of WNT5A does increase the amount of
ROS iron in the cell and also changes
sensitivity accordingly.
So our conclusions of our work has been that the aged skin
microenvironment does have this pro-ferroptosis signature,
and that through the induction of phenotype switching and the increase of
WNT5A, the HTME creates this tumor
vulnerability to ferroptosis that can be explored in older
melanoma patients. And we're currently now exploring how
these changes
in ferroptotic death impact other stromal cells, like the
fibroblasts themselves and immune cells, and how this can
reshape the HTME,
and trying to employ ferroptosis inducers in the combination with immune
checkpoint blockade.
I would like to thank the organizers, thank our funding sources,
my mentor, Dr. Shen Wirana, and everyone in the lab, both
present and past members that were crucial for this work to happen.
Thank you.
This very interesting presentation, in keeping with the theme of
tumor vulnerabilities with
these melanoma cells,
a lot to think about. Yes, sir.
Question.
Yeah.
Really interesting work. Thank you for the presentation.
John Schatz from University of-
Would you kindly speak into the microphone?
Sorry. John Schatz from University of Miami.
The
effects you describe in the microenvironment, seems that multiple cell
populations have increased signature of
ferroptosis-
Yes
... potentially susceptibility there too.
So I'm wondering if the concern would be that maybe the whole
older organism is more susceptible and therefore you'll just have
the same therapeutic window but just lower down
in effect in terms of... Because the ferroptosis inhibitors have had
a tough time showing single agent activity in clinical trials.
So I wonder if you've looked at that, and I think your mechanism at the end
is reassuring that that may not be the
case, but in your in vivo studies, did you do
any sort of orthotopic models or where there's an actual
microenvironment present,
not just the tumor cells when you're looking at the activity?
Yeah. So,
yeah, I understand that the whole organism when you're aging
tends to be a little bit more susceptible to ferroptosis.
But the fact that these melanoma cells are undergoing this
phenotype switching, they become a lot more sensitive than
the regular just aging effect.
There is, for sure,
something that we're analyzing now and looking at an immune panel to
see which cells might be dying and how much of this effect
can also be driven by selectively immune
cell death from
neutrophils might be more sensitive to it and other cells.
This we're currently exploring. But I think
regards to the tumor, like this vulnerability
window moving together,
I do think that the changes that the tumor
microenvironment are causing to the tumor are making the tumor itself a
lot more vulnerable and not
the organism as a whole.
Very good. I hope so.
Last question is whether you looked at
NRF2, either its expression or its activation state
relative-
Yeah
... to the sensitization.
So in these,
we did take a look, and we haven't had
a lot of changes in NRF2 in response to our
treatment, but we don't know if specific GPX4
inhibitors would have this more as a
response to
the NRF rather than just cysteine blockade for
YKE.
Thank you.
Two related questions. May I-
Please identify yourself.
Sorry. Todd Golub from the Broad Institute.
Did you see any difference in the growth in your
transplantable syngeneic models, not with treatment with
ferroptosis inducers, but just growth of
transplantable
melanoma cells in young versus old mice?
Yeah. Old mice, the melanoma tumors
grow a lot slower and have more metastatic
dissemination when compared to young.
And I think it was very interesting.
Usually, we do just two groups, the young and aged, but
in this one experiment I did,
four-month-old mice, 14-month-old mice, and 24-month-old mice,
and it was very interesting that they had this very nice step
reduction where the older the mice got, the slower the tumor
was to grow.
And so your hypothesis is that that's naturally occurring
ferroptosis that explains that?
So I think that is because of phenotype
switching itself. So the HTME,
and we have shown in other papers that that does
induce this change towards a more slower growth and
more metastatic disseminate phenotype.
And I do think that
while this is happening, these cells are becomingmore
susceptible to ferroptotic death.
And that is just something that we're exploring and not something that is
naturally occurring, and hence reduction.
Quick follow-up. Have you done these experiments in immunodeficient
mice?
No. These were all immune competent.
So let me just ask one question. You indicated
that
phenotypic
switching was irreversible.
I
wouldn't say it's irreversible. I think the aged
microenvironment is just creating this constant pressure
towards the switch. But I wouldn't call it fully
reversible.
Okay. So
in that respect,
maybe not in that respect,
the changes in the TME
essentially go one way, or they can go back the other way?
So I think we can maybe employ some
therapeutical approach just to try to drive it back.
But-
Are there any such therapies?
Not that I'm aware of right now.
Okay.
This is really interesting.
If there are no other questions, thank you very much.
Thank you.
Okay, let's move to the last speaker,
Simon Karin from Albert Einstein College of
Medicine.
Good afternoon, everybody.
Please speak into the microphone.
Oh.
Good afternoon.
Today my presentation asks
how SCF Skp2 complex control the cell cycle,
tumorigenesis, and lineage fidelity in
Rb/p53 deficient small cell lung cancer.
Okay. Sorry.
Let's start the disease content.
Small cell lung cancer appear 10% to 15%
among the lung cancer.
It is
fast growing, highly metastasis, and genetically it is
dominated by
two important tumor suppressor gene, loss of two important tumor
suppressor gene, RB1 and T53.
Biologically, it is started from neuroendocrine,
and it is highly plastic. Its plasticity lead to high
resistance.
In this context, we are interested to work
on Rb controlled
SCF Skp2 Cks1 axis.
Now our question was whether
the
dependency dataset
support these arguments.
Sorry.
Now it's
the biology.
In normal cell, Rb
control
cell cycle entry by
regulating
SCF Skp2 dependent p27 turnover.
It's act like a brake. When Rb lost in
the cell, cell control is break.
And then p27 undergo
uncontrolled degradation by SCF Skp2 complex.
If Rb
deficient small cell lung cancer depend on accelerated
p27 degradation,
then if we deleting the Skp2 or disrupting
Cks1 or
inhibiting this complex should expose a vulnerability.
This idea leads us, see intervention here,
Skp2 knockout
and Cks1 knockin by disrupting the surface
interface and pharmacologically inhibiting
this complex by pipt 노티ostat.
Our next question is whether this
support the repository dataset.
From the expression and dependency data,
we saw that Skp2 not only a
genetic proliferation marker,
its expression is increased in
small cell lung cancer in compared to
human normal epithelial cells and non-small cell lung cancer
in both
cell line and PDX model.
From the gene dependency landscape, we saw that Skp2
Cks1 lie on the Rb null essential side.
From this, we can say that
this complex is essential for Rb null
biology.
This
give us confidence to
go into the mice murine model.
We used neuroendocrine focused
mouse model
by delivering
CGRP-Cre intratracheally.
Our old Rb mice established the neuroendocrine starting point,
and we extended that to RpPT by deleting
Rb1, p53, and p10.
Here p10 is
influencing the murine models.
Here we use three cohort, RpPT as a baseline,
RpPT with Skp2 knockout-and RPPT
with CKS1N45 knockin
by disturbing the surface interface of
p27 binding.
Here we observe overall survival,
primary lung tumor incidence,
gross liver metastasis, histopathology, tumor-derived cell
phenotypes, and its drug response.
The genetic result is clear.
RPPT tumor
mice cohort shows
increased high tumor incidence rate,
common liver metastasis,
and overall median survival time is 6.2 months.
When we disturb that axis, we saw that three
parameter changes.
In SCYPH2 knockout mice,
we saw
it reduces tumor incidence,
nearly abolish liver metastasis,
and extend the survival rate.
On the other hand, CKS1
knockin mice
showing same
type of phenocopies like SCYPH2.
From this result, we can say that the
anti-tumor effect
depends on SCYPH2 surface interface,
not the entirely deletion of SCYPH2.
From
our histopathological finding,
it is
most interesting than
the tumor number is showing less.
From the
histopathological interpretation, here the histopathological
interpretation is very clear.
SCYPH2 intact RPPT
mice
showing small cell architecture,
having packed
cell structure
with hyperchromatin,
little number of cytoplasm.
When you disturb the axis, the cell architecture changed
totally from neuroendocrine to,
squamous structure,
having
big cell with more cytoplasm.
In the left-hand panel,
from the histopathology, we saw that RPPT mice
show neuroendocrine architecture having synaptophysin positive.
When you disturb the axis, we
saw that
it
lost its neuroendocrine architecture and regain squamous marker
such as SOX2, KRT5, P63,
including
YAP1 high expression.
Here we also did macrophage staining,
and we found that
high macrophage infiltration rate in CKS1 model,
which will be important when we'll talk about
tumor immunology.
On the right-hand panel,
show that
the tumor-derived cells
mirroring the
histopathological finding.
After three days treatment of pre-run state
of tumor-derived cell line, it redirected the
neuroendocrine state to YAP1
and KRT5 transitions.
From that, we can say that tissue and cell assay
showed when you disrupt the axis, it
suppresses neuroendocrine identity
and reveal YAP1 squamous program,
which convert the neuroendocrine cell cold to hot,
and potential sensitize for immunocheckpoint inhibitors.
For multiple study, we saw that YAP
high state is linked to an inflamed
immunologically hotter microenvironment, including T cell
characteristics,
upregulated interferon gamma response,
higher HL and T cells expressions, and increased
PD-L1 expression.
From that,
our model hypothesize that phenotypically shift is not
only lineage the redirect,
it may therapeutically exploitable to cold to hot
transition,
which sensitize cell for immunocheckpoint inhibitors.
From the drug response,
we saw that neuroendocrine suspension cell are most drug
sensitive
across
chemotherapeutic agent and pathway inhibitors.
Whereas remodeled cells are less sensitive.
At the same time, we saw that
suspension cells are
more proliferative in culture and
implantation,
whereas remodeled cells are less proliferative.
From that,
we can say that the linear state
providing two outcomes,
tumor aggressiveness and therapeutic response.
How many slides are here?
Then we ask whether
in vitroGive measurable
effect or not.
From the RPPT xenograft, we saw that pamostat
decreased tumor volume, tumor weights,
without changing body weight too much.
This
pharmacological analysis
redirect
and consistent with our previous genetic experimentations.
Then our model hypothesize that
when
we disrupt the axis, either by Scip2
knockout or remodel the surface interface
by CKS1 N45 knockin,
it reduces tumor incidence
and changes the lineage plasticity from neuroendocrine
to YAP1
high state,
including macrophage infiltration high.
Now, in summary,
firstly, we can say that SCF Scip2 CKS1
complex is a mechanistic dependency
for RB null small cell lung cancer.
When we genetically disrupt this axis
by Scip2 knockout or
interface disruption
by CKS1 N45 knockin,
it reduces tumor incidence,
nearly reduce the metastasis, and increase survival.
Tumor and derived cell lines remodel their phenotypes, changing
proliferation, drug sensitivity, and arguing the
state-aware therapeutic vulnerability.
So the main conclusion is,
Scip2 is not only supporting proliferation, but it
acting as a determinant of lineage identity and therapeutic
vulnerability in small cell lung cancer.
Inhibition of Scip2 convert
lung tumor from cold to hot tumor, potentially increase their
sensitivity to immuno checkpoint inhibitors.
I would like to thank you,
my
lab mates, and my guide,
Professor Eduardo Schwartz, and collaborator at Einstein
and UT and Southwestern.
Thank you all being here.
I would like to take questions.
Thank you.
Thank you very much. Very interesting
presentation.
I have a sort of off the wall
comment.
Your first take home message that
phospho-p27 turnover should
matter in small cell lung cancer. I wonder if this is
a target that would be identified by
Dr. Yaron
Bar-Yer's kinase library.
I don't know if he's here, but might be an interesting exercise to see
that. Yes, sir. Please.
Yeah, really nice talk. Jackson Fotheree, Fred Hutch Cancer Center.
You're probably familiar with the YAP subtype of small cell that's
kind of-
Yeah. YAP1. Yeah
... in and out of fashion, and more recently has been described as
a SMARCA4 deficient undifferentiated
carcinoma. I'm curious if you've looked at SMARCA2 or
SMARCA4 in your YAP positive squamous tumors and
if there's any similarity between the SCLC Y cell lines
and your YAP mouse model.
We have not...
Sorry. Can you say one more time? Yes.
I'm just curious if the sort of new understanding of
the YAP subtype of small cell lung cancer from the cell line
models is similar to your
YAP positive tumors that are sort of lineage switching from small
cell.
Means, what is your question? Have you seen that y-
I'm just wondering if you've compared the
transcriptomes of them, or the histology, or
any similarities you've noticed between the
YAP small cell, cell lines and your YAP
tumors.
We'll
see that one.
No?
Not yet.
That's okay.
Maybe that's a question that can be asked offline.
The experiment that you did with the
havanoxtat,
one times daily dosing, is that right?
Yeah, one time by IP.
One times daily. Every day.
One time daily. Yeah.
So it looked like the tumor was
suppressed, but it was still growing.
If you remove the drug, does the tumor come back?
That we have not checked, but-
Okay. You haven't done that experiment.
No, we have not done that experiment.
My guess is it might. Any other questions for Dr.
Karan?
So let's thank Dr. Karan and all the speakers.
And for those of you who wish to stick around, we invite the speakers
up to the podium here. Please take a seat,
for a round of further questions,
we have the room till 5:00 o'clock.
So-
5:00.
Yeah. Okay. We've used up our time.
So, okay. Thank you, Dr. Karan.
Thank you.
And I want to thank Dr. Xie for
being on the panel that selected these wonderful presentations,
and for inviting me to participate in this.
And thank all of you for your
extraordinary work, the presenters and the audience.
Thank you so much for coming here today.
Thank you.
I didn't get a chance to... Oh, thank
you.
Everybody's left. We can't even take a picture.
Yeah.
How about we take a selfie of ourselves?
Yeah, sure.
We can take a
picture.
Yeah, because someone must still have my
laptop.
Yeah.
Okay, that's nice.
Here we go. Cheese.
Yeah.
All right.
Good luck to you.
Yeah, thank you.
Nice to meet you. Yes. All the best.
When is your thesis defense?
So where will you go after graduation?
You will stay here or you will go back?
Back.
Okay. Then I have to say good luck for that.
Hopefully this was a little preview question.
She is not a student.
Many years of
experience being . Good luck to you.
Hi, I'm Amy.
Hi, Amy.
We spoke on the elevator.
Yeah.
Pleasure to meet you. Thanks for
stopping by.
That was a
great talk.
Yes, it was really interesting. Yeah.
So
what got you into being interested in cancer research?
Well, I think-
If you pardon me while I put this together.
Oh, yeah. Please. Because I know it's
.
I
did biochemistry as an undergrad.
Where was that?
At UC Irvine. And I really was just
into organic chemistry side of things.
So when I was just first graduated, I did an internship
at an oncology company. And I just kind of liked the idea of applying-
Uh-huh